The delays, here, means the time for which the processing of a particular packet takes place.

We have the following types of delays in computer networks:

Transmission Delay
Propagation delay
Queueing delay
Processing delay

Three-Way HandShake or a TCP 3-way handshake is a process which is used in a TCP/IP network to make a connection between the server and client.
It is a three-step process that requires both the client and server to exchange synchronisation and acknowledgment packets before the real data communication process starts.

Three-way handshake process is designed in such a way that both ends help you to initiate, negotiate, and separate TCP socket connections at the same time. 
It allows you to transfer multiple TCP socket connections in both directions at the same time.\

All backend server instances are registered with a central load balancer. A client requests this load balancer which then routes the request to one of the server instances using various algorithms like round-robin.
AWS ELB(Elastic Load Balancing) is a prime example of server-side load-balancing that registers multiple EC2 instances launched in its auto-scaling group and then routes the client requests to one of the EC2 instances.

Advantages of server-side load balancing:

Simple client configuration: only need to know the load-balancer address.
Clients can be untrusted: all traffic goes through the load-balancer where it can be looked at. Clients are not aware of the backend servers.

RSA algorithm is an asymmetric cryptography algorithm.
Asymmetric actually means that it works on two different keys i.e. Public Key and Private Key.
As the name describes, the Public Key is given to everyone and the Private key is kept private.

An example of asymmetric cryptography : A client (for example browser) sends its public key to the server and requests for some data.
The server encrypts the data using the client’s public key and sends the encrypted data. Client receives this data and decrypts it. 
Since this is asymmetric, nobody else except the browser can decrypt the data even if a third party has the public key of the browser.

HTTP is the HyperText Transfer Protocol which defines the set of rules and standards on how the information can be transmitted on the World Wide Web (WWW). 
It helps the web browsers and web servers for communication. It is a ‘stateless protocol’ where each command is independent with respect to the previous command.
HTTP is an application layer protocol built upon the TCP. It uses port 80 by default. HTTPS is the HyperText Transfer Protocol Secure or Secure HTTP. 
It is an advanced and a secured version of HTTP. On top of HTTP, SSL/TLS protocol is used to provide security. 
It enables secure transactions by encrypting the communication and also helps identify network servers securely. It uses port 443 by default.

TCP is a connection-oriented protocol, whereas UDP is a connectionless protocol. A key difference between TCP and UDP is speed, as TCP is comparatively slower than UDP. Overall, UDP is a much faster, simpler, and
efficient protocol, however, retransmission of lost data packets is only possible with TCP.

TCP provides extensive error checking mechanisms. 
It is because it provides flow control and acknowledgment of data. 
UDP has only the basic error checking mechanism using checksums.

Check the browser cache first if the content is fresh and present in the cache display the same.
If not, the browser checks if the IP of the URL is present in the cache (browser and OS) if not then requests the OS to do a DNS lookup using UDP to get the corresponding IP address of the URL from the DNS server to establish a new TCP connection.
A new TCP connection is set between the browser and the server using three-way handshaking.
An HTTP request is sent to the server using the TCP connection.
The web servers running on the Servers handle the incoming HTTP request and send the HTTP response.
The browser processes the HTTP response sent by the server and may close the TCP connection or reuse the same for future requests.
If the response data is cacheable then browsers cache the same.
Browser decodes the response and renders the content.

Hub: Hub is a networking device which is used to transmit the signal to each port.
(except one port) to respond from which the signal was received. Hub is operated on a Physical layer. In this packet filtering is not available. It is of two types: Active Hub, Passive Hub.

Switch: Switch is a network device which is used to enable the connection
establishment and connection termination on the basis of need. Switch is operated on the Data link layer. In this packet filtering is available. It is a type of full duplex
transmission mode and it is also called an efficient bridge.

VPN (Virtual Private Network) : VPN or the Virtual Private Network is a private WAN
(Wide Area Network) built on the internet. It allows the creation of a secured tunnel
(protected network) between different networks using the internet (public network). By using the VPN, a client can connect to the organisation’s network remotely.

Advantages of VPN :
1. VPN is used to connect offices in different geographical locations remotely and is
cheaper when compared to WAN connections.
2. VPN is used for secure transactions and confidential data transfer between
multiple offices located in different geographical locations.
3. VPN keeps an organisation’s information secured against any potential threats or
intrusions by using virtualization.
4. VPN encrypts the internet traffic and disguises the online identity

Disadvantages of VPN :
1. Not designed for continuous use
2. Complexity prevents scalability
3. Lack of granular security
4. Unpredictable performance
5. Unreliable availability

A local area network (LAN) is a collection of devices connected together in one physical location, such as a building, office, or home. 
A LAN can be small or large, ranging from a home network with one user to an enterprise network with thousands of users and devices in an office or school.
